SWIFFT - Swift Wavelet-based Inexact FFT
========================================

Copyright (C) 2011 Felipe H. da Jornada <jornada@civet.berkeley.edu>

* Author: Felipe H. da Jornada <jornada@civet.berkeley.edu>
* Created: 2011 December 09
* Keywords: C FFT FFTW Wavelet Approximate Inexact
* URL: <http://github.com/jornada/swifft>

Licensed under the [GPL version 2](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/) or later.

What is it?
-----------

SWIFFT is a library that implements an approximate Fast Fourier Transform 
(FFT) using Discrete Wavelet Transforms, and it is designed to be a drop-in
replacement for FFTW calls. Depending on the approximation trade-off and input 
signal, SWIFFT can be more than twice as fast as the exact FFT algorithms.


Details
-------

SWIFFT is a library that implements an approximate Fast Fourier Transform 
(FFT) using Discrete Wavelet Transforms, which is based on the algorithm 
developed by H. Guo and C. S. Burrus [1]. 

SWIFFT uses an efficient hybrid pruning scheme that mixes approximate FFT 
routines with high performance exact FFTs implemented in FFTW. The code can 
approximate FFTs in a controllable way, and the approximate algorithm is 
usually faster than the exact ones generated by FFTW.

The user has the freedom to choose the wavelet filter and the degree of 
pruning, so that one can choose the best approximation scheme for a 
particular problem.


[1] H. Guo and C. S. Burrus, Wavelet transform based fast approximate Fourier 
    transform. 1997 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and
    Signal Processing, v. 3, pp. 1973--1976 (1997).



Licensing
---------

SWIFFT Copyright (C) 2011  Felipe H. da Jornada <jornada@civet.berkeley.edu>

SWIFFT is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any later version.

SWIFFT is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
SWIFFT; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
